quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart"
description: "Get started with Pointer in under 5 minutes."
---

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 16.0 or later

* A React-based application (React 18+)

## Installation

<Steps>
  <Step title="Grab an API key from the Pointer dashboard.">
    Login to the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so), then create a project. Two keys will be automatically generated for you — a production and development key. Copy the development key and store it.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Pointer SDK using your preferred package manager.">
    <CodeGroup>
      ```bash npm
      npm install pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash pnpm
      pnpm add pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash yarn
      yarn add pointer-sdk
      ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure your environment variables.">
    Add the appropriate Pointer API key into your `.env` file.

    ```bash
    POINTER_API_KEY=pt_dev_*********************
    ```

    <Note>
      Note that there are two types of API keys: development and production.
      - **Development keys** (`pt_dev_*`):
        - For local development only
        - No origin restrictions
        - Stricter rate limits
      
      - **Production keys** (`pt_live_*`):
        - Required for deployed applications
        - Must specify allowed origin domains
        - Domains must be valid (e.g., example.com)
      
      API keys are only shown in full during creation. After that, only the last 4 characters will be visible.
    </Note>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Wrap your app with the PointerProvider.">
    In your root file, (e.g., `layout.tsx`, `index.tsx`, `_app.tsx`) wrap your app with the `PointerProvider`.

    ```typescript
    import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

    function App() {
      return (
          <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}>
            {children}
          </PointerProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    <Tip>
      For optimal performance, place the `PointerProvider` as close as possible to its child components.
    </Tip>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Test the integration.">
    Once you run your app, Pointer widget should now appear in the bottom-right corner. Head to the [Developers page](https://app.pointer.so/developers) in the dashboard and click "Verify connection" to ensure everything is working correctly.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Styling

You have complete control over the styling of the onboarding flow. For more information, see the [Styling](https://docs.pointer.so/features/styling) section.


## Framework-specific setup

<Note>
  Pointer currently works with any React-based application. Support for Vue, Svelte, and other frontend frameworks is in development.
</Note>

### Next.js

If using the `app` router:

```typescript app/layout.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}>
          {children}
        </PointerProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

If using the `pages` router:

```typescript pages/_app.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';
import type { AppProps } from 'next/app';

export default function App({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </PointerProvider>
  );
}
```

### Remix

```typescript app/root.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}>
          <Outlet />
        </PointerProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add onboarding link to quickstart guide

quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart"
description: "Get started with Pointer in under 5 minutes."
---

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 16.0 or later

* A React-based application (React 18+)

## Installation

<Steps>
  <Step title="Grab an API key from the Pointer dashboard.">
    Login to the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so), then create a project. Two keys will be automatically generated for you — a production and development key. Copy the development key and store it.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Pointer SDK using your preferred package manager.">
    <CodeGroup>
      ```bash npm
      npm install pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash pnpm
      pnpm add pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash yarn
      yarn add pointer-sdk
      ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure your environment variables.">
    Add the appropriate Pointer API key into your `.env` file.

    ```bash
    POINTER_API_KEY=pt_dev_*********************
    ```

    <Note>
      Note that there are two types of API keys: development and production.
      - **Development keys** (`pt_dev_*`):
        - For local development only
        - No origin restrictions
        - Stricter rate limits
      
      - **Production keys** (`pt_live_*`):
        - Required for deployed applications
        - Must specify allowed origin domains
        - Domains must be valid (e.g., example.com)
      
      API keys are only shown in full during creation. After that, only the last 4 characters will be visible.
    </Note>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Wrap your app with the PointerProvider.">
    In your root file, (e.g., `layout.tsx`, `index.tsx`, `_app.tsx`) wrap your app with the `PointerProvider`.

    If you want to set up onboarding flows, see the [Onboarding](https://docs.pointer.so/features/onboarding) section.

    ```typescript
    import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

    function App() {
      return (
          <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}>
            {children}
          </PointerProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    <Tip>
      For optimal performance, place the `PointerProvider` as close as possible to its child components.
    </Tip>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Test the integration.">
    Once you run your app, Pointer widget should now appear in the bottom-right corner. Head to the [Developers page](https://app.pointer.so/developers) in the dashboard and click "Verify connection" to ensure everything is working correctly.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Styling

You have complete control over the styling of the onboarding flow. For more information, see the [Styling](https://docs.pointer.so/features/styling) section.

## Framework-specific setup

<Note>
  Pointer currently works with any React-based application. Support for Vue, Svelte, and other frontend frameworks is in development.
</Note>

### Next.js

If using the `app` router:

```typescript app/layout.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}>
          {children}
        </PointerProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

If using the `pages` router:

```typescript pages/_app.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';
import type { AppProps } from 'next/app';

export default function App({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </PointerProvider>
  );
}
```

### Remix

```typescript app/root.tsx
import { PointerProvider } from 'pointer-sdk';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <PointerProvider apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}>
          <Outlet />
        </PointerProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```
