customization/styling.mdx, before:

---
title: "Styling"
description: "Learn how to customize your widget's appearance and content."
---

## Overview

Pointer's UI is fully customizable through the `PointerProvider` component. You can customize the theme colors, branding elements, and content to match your application's design system.

![Styling](/styling.png)

## Theme customization

Customize the visual appearance of the widget by configuring colors and styling. You can provide either a single color value or an object with `light` and `dark` values for dark mode support:

### Basic color configuration

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Theme colors (single values)
  primaryColor="#111827"      // Primary text and headings
  secondaryColor="#6B7280"    // Secondary text
  tertiaryColor="#f5f5f5"     // Tertiary elements
  accentColor="#6366f1"       // Interactive elements
  interactiveColor="#4f46e5"  // Interactive state colors
  backgroundColor="#ffffff"   // Widget background
  borderColor="#e4e4e7"      // Border color
  borderRadius="12px"        // Border radius for components
>
```

### Dark mode support

For applications that support dark mode, you can provide different colors for light and dark modes:

```typescript
const themeColors = {
  primaryColor: {
    dark: "#ffffff",   // Primary color in dark mode (zinc-50)
    light: "#111827", // Primary color in light mode (gray-800)
  },
  secondaryColor: {
    dark: "#71717a",  // Secondary color in dark mode (zinc-500)
    light: "#6B7280", // Secondary color in light mode (gray-500)
  },
  tertiaryColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",  // Tertiary color in dark mode
    light: "#f5f5f5", // Tertiary color in light mode
  },
  backgroundColor: {
    dark: "#09090b",  // Background color in dark mode (zinc-950)
    light: "#ffffff", // Background color in light mode (white)
  },
  accentColor: {
    dark: "#3730a3",  // Accent color in dark mode
    light: "#6366f1", // Accent color in light mode
  },
  interactiveColor: {
    dark: "#4338ca",  // Interactive color in dark mode
    light: "#4f46e5", // Interactive color in light mode
  },
  borderColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",  // Border color in dark mode (zinc-800)
    light: "#e4e4e7", // Border color in light mode (zinc-200)
  },
  borderRadius: {
    dark: "12px",     // Border radius in dark mode
    light: "12px",    // Border radius in light mode
  },
};

<PointerProvider
  apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}
  primaryColor={themeColors.primaryColor}
  secondaryColor={themeColors.secondaryColor}
  tertiaryColor={themeColors.tertiaryColor}
  backgroundColor={themeColors.backgroundColor}
  accentColor={themeColors.accentColor}
  interactiveColor={themeColors.interactiveColor}
  borderColor={themeColors.borderColor}
  borderRadius={themeColors.borderRadius}
>
```

The widget will automatically use the appropriate colors based on the user's system preferences or your application's theme setting.

## Branding

Customize branding elements to match your company's identity:

### Basic branding

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Branding
  logomark="/path-to-your-logo.png"     // Your company logo, .png or .svg
  triggerIcon="pointer"                  // Widget trigger icon
  triggerBackground="#ffffff"           // Trigger button background color
  triggerIconColor="#111827"           // Trigger icon color
  triggerBorder="#e4e4e7"             // Trigger button border color
>
```

### Dark mode support for branding

For applications that support dark mode, you can provide different values for light and dark modes:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Branding with dark mode support
  logomark={{
    light: "/logos/your-logo-dark.svg",  // Logo for light mode
    dark: "/logos/your-logo-light.svg",  // Logo for dark mode
  }}
  triggerBackground={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#09090b",
  }}
  triggerIconColor={{
    light: "#111827",
    dark: "#ffffff",
  }}
  triggerBorder={{
    light: "#e4e4e7",
    dark: "#27272a",
  }}
  triggerIcon="pointer"
>
```

The `logomark` prop can be either a string path to your logo or an object with `light` and `dark` properties for different themes.

The `triggerIcon` can be one of: `'sparkles'`, `'help'`, `'message'`, `'zap'`, or `'pointer'`.

## Content

Customize the widget's text content and messaging:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Content customization
  welcomeMessage="Hi there 👋"              // Initial greeting
  welcomeSubheading="How can we help?"      // Greeting subtext
  inputPlaceholder="Ask AI anything..."     // Chat input placeholder
>
```

## Link buttons

Customize up to four link buttons that appear at the top of the widget. These buttons can be used to direct users to important resources like documentation, community, or contact information:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Link button customization
  link1Text="Discord"                        // First button text
  link1Icon="users"                          // First button icon
  link1Url="https://dub.sh/pointer-community" // First button URL
  link2Text="Documentation"                   // Second button text
  link2Icon="book"                           // Second button icon
  link2Url="https://docs.pointer.so"         // Second button URL
  link3Text="Email us"                       // Third button text
  link3Icon="mail"                           // Third button icon
  link3Url="mailto:team@pointer.so"          // Third button URL
  link4Text="GitHub"                         // Fourth button text
  link4Icon="github"                         // Fourth button icon
  link4Url="https://github.com/pointer-gg"   // Fourth button URL
>
```

Each link button is optional and has three customizable properties:

* `text`: The button's label

* `icon`: A [Lucide](https://lucide.dev) icon name (e.g., 'users', 'book', 'mail', 'github')

* `url`: The URL to open when clicked

If not provided, the buttons will use default values pointing to Pointer's resources.

## Complete example

Here's a complete example showing all customization options with dark mode support:

```typescript
const themeColors = {
  primaryColor: {
    dark: "#ffffff",
    light: "#111827",
  },
  secondaryColor: {
    dark: "#71717a",
    light: "#6B7280",
  },
  tertiaryColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",
    light: "#f5f5f5",
  },
  backgroundColor: {
    dark: "#09090b",
    light: "#ffffff",
  },
  accentColor: {
    dark: "#3730a3",
    light: "#6366f1",
  },
  interactiveColor: {
    dark: "#4338ca",
    light: "#4f46e5",
  },
  borderColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",
    light: "#e4e4e7",
  },
};

<PointerProvider
  apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}
  // Theme with dark mode support
  primaryColor={themeColors.primaryColor}
  secondaryColor={themeColors.secondaryColor}
  tertiaryColor={themeColors.tertiaryColor}
  backgroundColor={themeColors.backgroundColor}
  accentColor={themeColors.accentColor}
  interactiveColor={themeColors.interactiveColor}
  borderColor={themeColors.borderColor}
  borderRadius="12px"
  
  // Branding with dark mode support
  logomark={{
    light: "/logos/your-logo-dark.svg",
    dark: "/logos/your-logo-light.svg",
  }}
  triggerIcon="pointer"
  triggerBackground={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#09090b",
  }}
  triggerIconColor={{
    light: "#111827",
    dark: "#ffffff",
  }}
  triggerBorder={{
    light: "#e4e4e7",
    dark: "#27272a",
  }}
  
  // Content
  welcomeMessage="Hi there 👋"
  welcomeSubheading="How can we help?"
  inputPlaceholder="Ask AI anything..."
  suggestedItems={[
    "How do I get started?",
    "What are the key features?",
    "Can you help with integration?"
  ]}
  
  // Link buttons
  link1Text="Discord"
  link1Icon="users"
  link1Url="https://dub.sh/pointer-community"
  link2Text="Documentation"
  link2Icon="book"
  link2Url="https://docs.pointer.so"
  link3Text="Email us"
  link3Icon="mail"
  link3Url="mailto:team@pointer.so"
  link4Text="GitHub"
  link4Icon="github"
  link4Url="https://github.com/pointer-gg"
>
  {/* Your app content */}
</PointerProvider>
```

All customization properties are optional. If not provided, Pointer will use its default theme and content settings.

## Debugging styling issues

If you're experiencing issues with the styling not being applied correctly, here are some steps to troubleshoot:

### 1. Check prop values and types

Ensure your color values are valid CSS colors. The component accepts Hex codes (e.g., `"#ffffff"`).

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - missing hash
<PointerProvider primaryColor="ffffff">

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider primaryColor="#ffffff">
```

### 2. Verify dark mode configuration

If you're using dark mode, ensure your theme object has both `light` and `dark` properties:

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - missing light/dark properties
<PointerProvider
  primaryColor={{
    default: "#ffffff",
    darkMode: "#000000"
  }}
>

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider
  primaryColor={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#000000"
  }}
>
```

### 3. Check component hierarchy

Make sure the `PointerProvider` is:

* Mounted in your component tree

* Wrapping the components you want to style

* Not nested inside another `PointerProvider`

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - nested providers
<PointerProvider theme={theme1}>
  <PointerProvider theme={theme2}>  {/* This will not work as expected */}
    <YourComponent />
  </PointerProvider>
</PointerProvider>

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider theme={theme1}>
  <YourComponent />
</PointerProvider>
```

### 4. CSS override (last resort)

If you've tried the above solutions and are still experiencing issues, you can use CSS overrides as a last resort. Create a CSS file with higher specificity selectors:

```css
/* styles/pointer-overrides.css */

/* Override widget background */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-background: #ffffff !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-background: #09090b !important;
}

/* Override primary text color */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-primary: #111827 !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-primary: #ffffff !important;
}

/* Override accent color */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-accent: #6366f1 !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-accent: #3730a3 !important;
}
```

Then import this CSS file in your application:

```typescript
// pages/_app.tsx or similar
import '../styles/pointer-overrides.css';
```

Note: Using CSS overrides should be a temporary solution while you debug the root cause. The `PointerProvider` props are the recommended way to customize the widget's appearance.

### 5. Debug with DevTools

You can use DevTools to:

1. Verify your `PointerProvider` props are being passed correctly

2. Check if theme values are being properly consumed by child components

3. Inspect the computed styles to see which CSS rules are being applied

If you're still experiencing issues after trying these solutions, please [reach out](mailto:team@pointer.so) with:

* Your theme configuration code

* Screenshots of the styling issue

* Browser console errors (if any)

* Steps to reproduce the problem

Commit message:

docs: Add z-index considerations section to styling documentation

customization/styling.mdx, after:

---
title: "Styling"
description: "Learn how to customize your widget's appearance and content."
---

## Overview

Pointer's UI is fully customizable through the `PointerProvider` component. You can customize the theme colors, branding elements, and content to match your application's design system.

![Styling](/styling.png)

## Theme customization

Customize the visual appearance of the widget by configuring colors and styling. You can provide either a single color value or an object with `light` and `dark` values for dark mode support:

### Basic color configuration

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Theme colors (single values)
  primaryColor="#111827"      // Primary text and headings
  secondaryColor="#6B7280"    // Secondary text
  tertiaryColor="#f5f5f5"     // Tertiary elements
  accentColor="#6366f1"       // Interactive elements
  interactiveColor="#4f46e5"  // Interactive state colors
  backgroundColor="#ffffff"   // Widget background
  borderColor="#e4e4e7"      // Border color
  borderRadius="12px"        // Border radius for components
>
```

### Dark mode support

For applications that support dark mode, you can provide different colors for light and dark modes:

```typescript
const themeColors = {
  primaryColor: {
    dark: "#ffffff",   // Primary color in dark mode (zinc-50)
    light: "#111827", // Primary color in light mode (gray-800)
  },
  secondaryColor: {
    dark: "#71717a",  // Secondary color in dark mode (zinc-500)
    light: "#6B7280", // Secondary color in light mode (gray-500)
  },
  tertiaryColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",  // Tertiary color in dark mode
    light: "#f5f5f5", // Tertiary color in light mode
  },
  backgroundColor: {
    dark: "#09090b",  // Background color in dark mode (zinc-950)
    light: "#ffffff", // Background color in light mode (white)
  },
  accentColor: {
    dark: "#3730a3",  // Accent color in dark mode
    light: "#6366f1", // Accent color in light mode
  },
  interactiveColor: {
    dark: "#4338ca",  // Interactive color in dark mode
    light: "#4f46e5", // Interactive color in light mode
  },
  borderColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",  // Border color in dark mode (zinc-800)
    light: "#e4e4e7", // Border color in light mode (zinc-200)
  },
  borderRadius: {
    dark: "12px",     // Border radius in dark mode
    light: "12px",    // Border radius in light mode
  },
};

<PointerProvider
  apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}
  primaryColor={themeColors.primaryColor}
  secondaryColor={themeColors.secondaryColor}
  tertiaryColor={themeColors.tertiaryColor}
  backgroundColor={themeColors.backgroundColor}
  accentColor={themeColors.accentColor}
  interactiveColor={themeColors.interactiveColor}
  borderColor={themeColors.borderColor}
  borderRadius={themeColors.borderRadius}
>
```

The widget will automatically use the appropriate colors based on the user's system preferences or your application's theme setting.

## Branding

Customize branding elements to match your company's identity:

### Basic branding

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Branding
  logomark="/path-to-your-logo.png"     // Your company logo, .png or .svg
  triggerIcon="pointer"                  // Widget trigger icon
  triggerBackground="#ffffff"           // Trigger button background color
  triggerIconColor="#111827"           // Trigger icon color
  triggerBorder="#e4e4e7"             // Trigger button border color
>
```

### Dark mode support for branding

For applications that support dark mode, you can provide different values for light and dark modes:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Branding with dark mode support
  logomark={{
    light: "/logos/your-logo-dark.svg",  // Logo for light mode
    dark: "/logos/your-logo-light.svg",  // Logo for dark mode
  }}
  triggerBackground={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#09090b",
  }}
  triggerIconColor={{
    light: "#111827",
    dark: "#ffffff",
  }}
  triggerBorder={{
    light: "#e4e4e7",
    dark: "#27272a",
  }}
  triggerIcon="pointer"
>
```

The `logomark` prop can be either a string path to your logo or an object with `light` and `dark` properties for different themes.

The `triggerIcon` can be one of: `'sparkles'`, `'help'`, `'message'`, `'zap'`, or `'pointer'`.

## Content

Customize the widget's text content and messaging:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Content customization
  welcomeMessage="Hi there 👋"              // Initial greeting
  welcomeSubheading="How can we help?"      // Greeting subtext
  inputPlaceholder="Ask AI anything..."     // Chat input placeholder
>
```

## Link buttons

Customize up to four link buttons that appear at the top of the widget. These buttons can be used to direct users to important resources like documentation, community, or contact information:

```typescript
<PointerProvider
  // Link button customization
  link1Text="Discord"                        // First button text
  link1Icon="users"                          // First button icon
  link1Url="https://dub.sh/pointer-community" // First button URL
  link2Text="Documentation"                   // Second button text
  link2Icon="book"                           // Second button icon
  link2Url="https://docs.pointer.so"         // Second button URL
  link3Text="Email us"                       // Third button text
  link3Icon="mail"                           // Third button icon
  link3Url="mailto:team@pointer.so"          // Third button URL
  link4Text="GitHub"                         // Fourth button text
  link4Icon="github"                         // Fourth button icon
  link4Url="https://github.com/pointer-gg"   // Fourth button URL
>
```

Each link button is optional and has three customizable properties:

* `text`: The button's label

* `icon`: A [Lucide](https://lucide.dev) icon name (e.g., 'users', 'book', 'mail', 'github')

* `url`: The URL to open when clicked

If not provided, the buttons will use default values pointing to Pointer's resources.

## Complete example

Here's a complete example showing all customization options with dark mode support:

```typescript
const themeColors = {
  primaryColor: {
    dark: "#ffffff",
    light: "#111827",
  },
  secondaryColor: {
    dark: "#71717a",
    light: "#6B7280",
  },
  tertiaryColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",
    light: "#f5f5f5",
  },
  backgroundColor: {
    dark: "#09090b",
    light: "#ffffff",
  },
  accentColor: {
    dark: "#3730a3",
    light: "#6366f1",
  },
  interactiveColor: {
    dark: "#4338ca",
    light: "#4f46e5",
  },
  borderColor: {
    dark: "#27272a",
    light: "#e4e4e7",
  },
};

<PointerProvider
  apiKey={process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_POINTER_API_KEY!}
  // Theme with dark mode support
  primaryColor={themeColors.primaryColor}
  secondaryColor={themeColors.secondaryColor}
  tertiaryColor={themeColors.tertiaryColor}
  backgroundColor={themeColors.backgroundColor}
  accentColor={themeColors.accentColor}
  interactiveColor={themeColors.interactiveColor}
  borderColor={themeColors.borderColor}
  borderRadius="12px"
  
  // Branding with dark mode support
  logomark={{
    light: "/logos/your-logo-dark.svg",
    dark: "/logos/your-logo-light.svg",
  }}
  triggerIcon="pointer"
  triggerBackground={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#09090b",
  }}
  triggerIconColor={{
    light: "#111827",
    dark: "#ffffff",
  }}
  triggerBorder={{
    light: "#e4e4e7",
    dark: "#27272a",
  }}
  
  // Content
  welcomeMessage="Hi there 👋"
  welcomeSubheading="How can we help?"
  inputPlaceholder="Ask AI anything..."
  suggestedItems={[
    "How do I get started?",
    "What are the key features?",
    "Can you help with integration?"
  ]}
  
  // Link buttons
  link1Text="Discord"
  link1Icon="users"
  link1Url="https://dub.sh/pointer-community"
  link2Text="Documentation"
  link2Icon="book"
  link2Url="https://docs.pointer.so"
  link3Text="Email us"
  link3Icon="mail"
  link3Url="mailto:team@pointer.so"
  link4Text="GitHub"
  link4Icon="github"
  link4Url="https://github.com/pointer-gg"
>
  {/* Your app content */}
</PointerProvider>
```

All customization properties are optional. If not provided, Pointer will use its default theme and content settings.

## Debugging styling issues

If you're experiencing issues with the styling not being applied correctly, here are some steps to troubleshoot:

### 1. Check prop values and types

Ensure your color values are valid CSS colors. The component accepts Hex codes (e.g., `"#ffffff"`).

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - missing hash
<PointerProvider primaryColor="ffffff">

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider primaryColor="#ffffff">
```

### 2. Verify dark mode configuration

If you're using dark mode, ensure your theme object has both `light` and `dark` properties:

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - missing light/dark properties
<PointerProvider
  primaryColor={{
    default: "#ffffff",
    darkMode: "#000000"
  }}
>

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider
  primaryColor={{
    light: "#ffffff",
    dark: "#000000"
  }}
>
```

### 3. Check component hierarchy

Make sure the `PointerProvider` is:

* Mounted in your component tree

* Wrapping the components you want to style

* Not nested inside another `PointerProvider`

```typescript
// ❌ Invalid - nested providers
<PointerProvider theme={theme1}>
  <PointerProvider theme={theme2}>  {/* This will not work as expected */}
    <YourComponent />
  </PointerProvider>
</PointerProvider>

// ✅ Valid
<PointerProvider theme={theme1}>
  <YourComponent />
</PointerProvider>
```

### 4. CSS override (last resort)

If you've tried the above solutions and are still experiencing issues, you can use CSS overrides as a last resort. Create a CSS file with higher specificity selectors:

```css
/* styles/pointer-overrides.css */

/* Override widget background */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-background: #ffffff !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-background: #09090b !important;
}

/* Override primary text color */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-primary: #111827 !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-primary: #ffffff !important;
}

/* Override accent color */
.pointer-widget[data-theme="light"] {
  --pointer-accent: #6366f1 !important;
}
.pointer-widget[data-theme="dark"] {
  --pointer-accent: #3730a3 !important;
}
```

Then import this CSS file in your application:

```typescript
// pages/_app.tsx or similar
import '../styles/pointer-overrides.css';
```

Note: Using CSS overrides should be a temporary solution while you debug the root cause. The `PointerProvider` props are the recommended way to customize the widget's appearance.

### 5. Z-index considerations

The Pointer widget uses a high z-index value (`2147483647`) to ensure it appears above other elements on your page. While this should work in most cases, you might encounter issues with certain popups, modals, or dialogs:

```typescript
// The Pointer widget's z-index
z-index: 2147483647  // Maximum possible z-index value
```

If you notice that your popups or dialogs are being hidden behind the Pointer widget, this is likely because:

1. Your popup's stacking context is isolated from the main document flow
2. The popup is using a relative z-index within a new stacking context
3. There are intermediate elements creating new stacking contexts

To resolve z-index conflicts:

* Ensure your popups are rendered at the root level of your document (e.g., using a portal)
* Check for elements with `transform`, `opacity`, or `filter` properties that might create new stacking contexts
* Review your modal/dialog library's documentation for z-index configuration options

Note: The Pointer widget intentionally uses the maximum possible z-index value to ensure it's always accessible to users. In most cases, your popups should appear below the widget for the best user experience.

### 6. Debug with DevTools

You can use DevTools to:

1. Verify your `PointerProvider` props are being passed correctly

2. Check if theme values are being properly consumed by child components

3. Inspect the computed styles to see which CSS rules are being applied

If you're still experiencing issues after trying these solutions, please [reach out](mailto:team@pointer.so) with:

* Your theme configuration code

* Screenshots of the styling issue

* Browser console errors (if any)

* Steps to reproduce the problem
