features/onboarding.mdx, before:

---
title: "Onboarding flows"
description: "Learn how to set up interactive onboarding flows."
---

## Overview

Pointer's interactive onboarding workflows allow you to guide your users through your app with customizable step-by-step tours. Using our onboarding components—built with React and integrated via a Context provider—you can create multi-step guides, validate user actions, and provide an engaging introduction to your application.

## Getting started

### 1. Installation and setup

<Steps>
  <Step title="Grab an API key from the Pointer dashboard.">
    Login to the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so), then create a project. Two keys will be automatically generated for you — a production and development key. Copy the development key and store it.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Pointer SDK using your preferred package manager.">
    <CodeGroup>
      ```bash npm
      npm install pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash pnpm
      pnpm add pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash yarn
      yarn add pointer-sdk
      ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure your environment variables.">
    Add the appropriate Pointer API key into your `.env` file.

    ```bash
    POINTER_API_KEY=pt_dev_*********************
    ```

    <Note>
      Note that there are two types of API keys: development and production.
      - **Development keys** (`pt_dev_*`):
        - For local development only
        - No origin restrictions
        - Stricter rate limits

      - **Production keys** (`pt_live_*`):
        - Required for deployed applications
        - Must specify allowed origin domains
        - Domains must be valid (e.g., example.com)
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>

### 2. Configure the provider

Add the `PointerOnboardingProvider` to wrap your app, typically in a layout file that contains your authenticated routes:

```typescript
import { PointerOnboardingProvider } from "pointer-sdk";

function App() {
  return (
    <PointerOnboardingProvider
      apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}
      config={onboardingConfig}
      //Styling options, see below
    >
      {children}
    </PointerOnboardingProvider>
  );
}
```

### 3. Define your onboarding flow

Create an onboarding configuration object that defines your welcome screen and guides:

```typescript
const onboardingConfig: OnboardingConfig = {
  id: "getting-started",
  welcomeHeading: "Hi there 👋",
  welcomeSubheading: "Welcome to Pointer.",
  welcomeDescription: "Let's get you familiar with the core features.",
  welcomeImage: "your-welcome-image-url", // Optional
  guides: [
    {
      id: "create-project",
      title: "Create your first project",
      description: "Start by creating a new project.",
      buttonText: "Create project",
      page: "/", // The page where this guide activates
      steps: [
        {
          position: "project-name-input",
          instructions: "Enter a name for your project.",
          action: { type: "input" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "create-project-button",
          instructions: "Click to create your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
};
```

### 4. Prepare your components

Add IDs to the elements you want to highlight in your onboarding steps:

```typescript
function ProjectForm() {
  return (
    <form>
      {/* Add IDs that match your step positions */}
      <input id="project-name-input" type="text" placeholder="Project name" />
      <button id="create-project-button">Create Project</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

<Note>
  Best practices for element identification: - Use unique IDs that match your
  step positions exactly - Keep IDs concise and descriptive - Verify IDs exist
  on the correct pages
</Note>

## Customization options

### Styling

You can customize the appearance of your onboarding flow through these props:

```typescript
<PointerOnboardingProvider
  // Appearance
  primaryColor="#007AFF" // Main color for buttons and interactive elements
  secondaryColor="#F5F5F5" // Secondary color for backgrounds
  tertiaryColor="#333333" // Color used for text elements
  accentColor="#FFD700" // Highlight and emphasis color
  backgroundColor="#FFFFFF" // Background color of the modal/widget
  borderColor="#E5E5E5" // Color used for borders
  borderRadius="8px" // Border radius for rounded corners
  // Branding
  logomark="/path-to-your-logo.svg" // Your company logo
  widgetHeader="Getting started 👋" // Custom header text
>
  {children}
</PointerOnboardingProvider>
```

### Guide types

You can create two types of guides:

1. **Step-by-step walkthrough guide**:

```typescript
interface WorkflowGuide {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  description: string;
  buttonText: string;
  page?: string; // The page where this guide activates
  steps: OnboardingStep[];
}
```

2. **Button-link guide** (for external resources):

```typescript
interface WorkflowGuide {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  description: string;
  buttonText: string;
  buttonLink: string; // External URL to open
}
```

## Custom validation

### Overview

Custom validation allows you to create sophisticated validation rules for onboarding steps beyond simple click, input, or select events. This is particularly useful when you need to:

- Validate complex user interactions
- Check for specific input patterns or values
- Wait for asynchronous operations to complete
- Implement conditional logic

### Configuration

Custom validation is configured through the `customValidation` property in a step's action:

```typescript
{
type: 'custom' as const,
customValidation: {
  condition: () => boolean, // Required: Validation function
  pollingInterval?: number, // Optional: Check frequency in ms
  timeout?: number, // Optional: Maximum wait time in ms
  },
};
```

### Basic example

Here's a simple example that validates if an input contains specific text:

```typescript
{
  position: 'project-name-input',
  instructions: 'Enter a project name that contains "API"',
  action: {
  type: 'custom',
  customValidation: {
    condition: () => {
      const input = document.getElementById(
        "project-name-input"
      ) as HTMLInputElement;
      return input && input.value.includes("API");
    },
    pollingInterval: 500, // Check every 500ms
    timeout: 15000, // Give up after 15 seconds
  },
  },
};
```

### Advanced features

#### Polling interval

The `pollingInterval` property determines how frequently the condition is checked:

```typescript
customValidation: {
  condition: () => someAsyncCheck(),
  pollingInterval: 1000,  // Check every second
}
```

#### Timeout handling

Use `timeout` to specify how long to wait before giving up:

```typescript
customValidation: {
  condition: () => someComplexValidation(),
  timeout: 30000,  // Give up after 30 seconds
  onError: () => console.error('Validation timed out')
}
```

### Complex validation examples

#### Multiple conditions

Validate multiple conditions simultaneously:

```typescript
{
  position: 'form-section',
  instructions: 'Complete all required fields',
  action: {
    type: 'custom',
    customValidation: {
      condition: () => {
        const nameInput = document.getElementById('name') as HTMLInputElement;
        const emailInput = document.getElementById('email') as HTMLInputElement;
        const termsCheckbox = document.getElementById('terms') as HTMLInputElement;

        return (
          nameInput?.value.length >= 3 && // Check if name is at least 3 characters
          emailInput?.value.includes('@') && // Check if email contains '@'
          termsCheckbox?.checked // Check if terms checkbox is checked
        );
      },
      pollingInterval: 500
    }
  }
}
```

#### Asynchronous validation

Handle async operations in your validation:

```typescript
{
  position: 'api-key-input',
  instructions: 'Enter a valid API key',
  action: {
    type: 'custom',
    customValidation: {
      condition: async () => {
        const input = document.getElementById('api-key') as HTMLInputElement;
        if (!input?.value) return false;

        try {
          const response = await fetch('/api/validate-key', {
            method: 'POST',
            body: JSON.stringify({ key: input.value })
          });
          return response.ok;
        } catch {
          return false;
        }
      },
      pollingInterval: 1000,
      timeout: 30000
    }
  }
}
```

### Limitations and considerations

- Custom validation conditions must return a boolean value
- Async conditions are supported but must resolve to a boolean
- Conditions should be pure functions without side effects
- Heavy operations in conditions may impact performance
- Browser security restrictions apply to DOM operations

## State management

The onboarding system automatically manages:

- Guide completion status
- Current step within each guide
- Cross-page navigation state
- Button-link guide states

State is persisted in localStorage using these keys:

```typescript
const WORKFLOW_STORAGE_KEY = "pointer-workflow-{id}"; // Guide progress
const STATE_STORAGE_KEY = "pointer-onboarding-state-{id}"; // Overall state
const BUTTON_LINK_STATE_KEY = "pointer-button-link-state-{id}"; // External link state
```

<Note>
  **Testing & Development**
  
  To re-trigger the onboarding flow during testing or development, clear the related localStorage keys:
  ```javascript
  // Replace {id} with your onboarding config ID
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-workflow-{id}');
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-onboarding-state-{id}');
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-button-link-state-{id}');
  ```
  You can also simply go to Chrome DevTools, navigate to the Application tab, and clear the localStorage keys. After clearing these keys, refresh the page to restart the onboarding flow.

We are currently working on a "Dev mode" that will allow you to re-trigger the onboarding flow without clearing the localStorage keys.

</Note>

## Complete example

Here's the complete onboarding flow from the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so):

```typescript
const onboardingConfig = {
  id: "getting-started",
  welcomeHeading: "Hi there 👋",
  welcomeSubheading: "Welcome to Pointer.",
  welcomeDescription:
    "Let's get you familiar with the core features of our platform.",
  welcomeImage: "https://i.ibb.co/j9GdXQ3z/onboarding-guide-image.png",
  guides: [
    {
      id: "integrate-pointer",
      title: "Install Pointer to your app",
      description: "Integrating Pointer into your app in just a few steps.",
      buttonText: "Install Pointer",
      page: "/developers",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "package-manager-button",
          instructions:
            "Copy the install command to your clipboard and install Pointer in your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "script-copy-button",
          instructions: "Now, add the PointerProvider to your app's root file.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "api-copy-button",
          instructions: "Copy your API key and store it in a secure location.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "knowledge-base",
      title: "Add sources",
      description:
        "Add sources to your knowledge base to help Pointer understand your app.",
      buttonText: "Add sources",
      page: "/knowledge",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "add-file-button",
          instructions: "Add a file to your knowledge base.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "add-link-button",
          instructions:
            "Add a URL (docs, website, etc.) to your knowledge base.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "invite-team",
      title: "Invite team members",
      description: "Invite your team members to your project.",
      buttonText: "Invite team",
      page: "/settings?tab=teams",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "invite-members-button",
          instructions: "Invite your team members to your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "view-docs",
      title: "View docs",
      description: "View the docs to learn more about Pointer.",
      buttonText: "View docs",
      buttonLink: "https://docs.pointer.so",
    },
    {
      id: "join-community",
      title: "Join community",
      description:
        "Join our Discord community to get help and support from the Pointer team.",
      buttonText: "Join community",
      buttonLink: "https://dub.sh/pointer-community",
    },
  ],
};
```

Commit message:

docs: Enhance styling documentation with dark mode and comprehensive theming support

features/onboarding.mdx, after:

---
title: "Onboarding flows"
description: "Learn how to set up interactive onboarding flows."
---

## Overview

Pointer's interactive onboarding workflows allow you to guide your users through your app with customizable step-by-step tours. Using our onboarding components—built with React and integrated via a Context provider—you can create multi-step guides, validate user actions, and provide an engaging introduction to your application.

## Getting started

### 1. Installation and setup

<Steps>
  <Step title="Grab an API key from the Pointer dashboard.">
    Login to the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so), then create a project. Two keys will be automatically generated for you — a production and development key. Copy the development key and store it.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Pointer SDK using your preferred package manager.">
    <CodeGroup>
      ```bash npm
      npm install pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash pnpm
      pnpm add pointer-sdk
      ```

      ```bash yarn
      yarn add pointer-sdk
      ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure your environment variables.">
    Add the appropriate Pointer API key into your `.env` file.

    ```bash
    POINTER_API_KEY=pt_dev_*********************
    ```

    <Note>
      Note that there are two types of API keys: development and production.
      - **Development keys** (`pt_dev_*`):
        - For local development only
        - No origin restrictions
        - Stricter rate limits

      - **Production keys** (`pt_live_*`):
        - Required for deployed applications
        - Must specify allowed origin domains
        - Domains must be valid (e.g., example.com)
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>

### 2. Configure the provider

Add the `PointerOnboardingProvider` to wrap your app, typically in a layout file that contains your authenticated routes:

```typescript
import { PointerOnboardingProvider } from "pointer-sdk";

function App() {
  return (
    <PointerOnboardingProvider
      apiKey={process.env.POINTER_API_KEY!}
      config={onboardingConfig}
      //Styling options, see below
    >
      {children}
    </PointerOnboardingProvider>
  );
}
```

### 3. Define your onboarding flow

Create an onboarding configuration object that defines your welcome screen and guides:

```typescript
const onboardingConfig: OnboardingConfig = {
  id: "getting-started",
  welcomeHeading: "Hi there 👋",
  welcomeSubheading: "Welcome to Pointer.",
  welcomeDescription: "Let's get you familiar with the core features.",
  welcomeImage: "your-welcome-image-url", // Optional
  guides: [
    {
      id: "create-project",
      title: "Create your first project",
      description: "Start by creating a new project.",
      buttonText: "Create project",
      page: "/", // The page where this guide activates
      steps: [
        {
          position: "project-name-input",
          instructions: "Enter a name for your project.",
          action: { type: "input" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "create-project-button",
          instructions: "Click to create your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
};
```

### 4. Prepare your components

Add IDs to the elements you want to highlight in your onboarding steps:

```typescript
function ProjectForm() {
  return (
    <form>
      {/* Add IDs that match your step positions */}
      <input id="project-name-input" type="text" placeholder="Project name" />
      <button id="create-project-button">Create Project</button>
    </form>
  );
}
```

<Note>
  Best practices for element identification: - Use unique IDs that match your
  step positions exactly - Keep IDs concise and descriptive - Verify IDs exist
  on the correct pages
</Note>

## Customization options

### Styling

For more information on how to style the onboarding components, see the [styling](https://docs.pointer.so/features/styling) page.

### Guide types

You can create two types of guides:

1. **Step-by-step walkthrough guide**:

```typescript
interface WorkflowGuide {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  description: string;
  buttonText: string;
  page?: string; // The page where this guide activates
  steps: OnboardingStep[];
}
```

2. **Button-link guide** (for external resources):

```typescript
interface WorkflowGuide {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  description: string;
  buttonText: string;
  buttonLink: string; // External URL to open
}
```

## Custom validation

### Overview

Custom validation allows you to create sophisticated validation rules for onboarding steps beyond simple click, input, or select events. This is particularly useful when you need to:

- Validate complex user interactions
- Check for specific input patterns or values
- Wait for asynchronous operations to complete
- Implement conditional logic

### Configuration

Custom validation is configured through the `customValidation` property in a step's action:

```typescript
{
type: 'custom' as const,
customValidation: {
  condition: () => boolean, // Required: Validation function
  pollingInterval?: number, // Optional: Check frequency in ms
  timeout?: number, // Optional: Maximum wait time in ms
  },
};
```

### Basic example

Here's a simple example that validates if an input contains specific text:

```typescript
{
  position: 'project-name-input',
  instructions: 'Enter a project name that contains "API"',
  action: {
  type: 'custom',
  customValidation: {
    condition: () => {
      const input = document.getElementById(
        "project-name-input"
      ) as HTMLInputElement;
      return input && input.value.includes("API");
    },
    pollingInterval: 500, // Check every 500ms
    timeout: 15000, // Give up after 15 seconds
  },
  },
};
```

### Advanced features

#### Polling interval

The `pollingInterval` property determines how frequently the condition is checked:

```typescript
customValidation: {
  condition: () => someAsyncCheck(),
  pollingInterval: 1000,  // Check every second
}
```

#### Timeout handling

Use `timeout` to specify how long to wait before giving up:

```typescript
customValidation: {
  condition: () => someComplexValidation(),
  timeout: 30000,  // Give up after 30 seconds
  onError: () => console.error('Validation timed out')
}
```

### Complex validation examples

#### Multiple conditions

Validate multiple conditions simultaneously:

```typescript
{
  position: 'form-section',
  instructions: 'Complete all required fields',
  action: {
    type: 'custom',
    customValidation: {
      condition: () => {
        const nameInput = document.getElementById('name') as HTMLInputElement;
        const emailInput = document.getElementById('email') as HTMLInputElement;
        const termsCheckbox = document.getElementById('terms') as HTMLInputElement;

        return (
          nameInput?.value.length >= 3 && // Check if name is at least 3 characters
          emailInput?.value.includes('@') && // Check if email contains '@'
          termsCheckbox?.checked // Check if terms checkbox is checked
        );
      },
      pollingInterval: 500
    }
  }
}
```

#### Asynchronous validation

Handle async operations in your validation:

```typescript
{
  position: 'api-key-input',
  instructions: 'Enter a valid API key',
  action: {
    type: 'custom',
    customValidation: {
      condition: async () => {
        const input = document.getElementById('api-key') as HTMLInputElement;
        if (!input?.value) return false;

        try {
          const response = await fetch('/api/validate-key', {
            method: 'POST',
            body: JSON.stringify({ key: input.value })
          });
          return response.ok;
        } catch {
          return false;
        }
      },
      pollingInterval: 1000,
      timeout: 30000
    }
  }
}
```

### Limitations and considerations

- Custom validation conditions must return a boolean value
- Async conditions are supported but must resolve to a boolean
- Conditions should be pure functions without side effects
- Heavy operations in conditions may impact performance
- Browser security restrictions apply to DOM operations

## State management

The onboarding system automatically manages:

- Guide completion status
- Current step within each guide
- Cross-page navigation state
- Button-link guide states

State is persisted in localStorage using these keys:

```typescript
const WORKFLOW_STORAGE_KEY = "pointer-workflow-{id}"; // Guide progress
const STATE_STORAGE_KEY = "pointer-onboarding-state-{id}"; // Overall state
const BUTTON_LINK_STATE_KEY = "pointer-button-link-state-{id}"; // External link state
```

<Note>
  **Testing & Development**
  
  To re-trigger the onboarding flow during testing or development, clear the related localStorage keys:
  ```javascript
  // Replace {id} with your onboarding config ID
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-workflow-{id}');
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-onboarding-state-{id}');
  localStorage.removeItem('pointer-button-link-state-{id}');
  ```
  You can also simply go to Chrome DevTools, navigate to the Application tab, and clear the localStorage keys. After clearing these keys, refresh the page to restart the onboarding flow.

We are currently working on a "Dev mode" that will allow you to re-trigger the onboarding flow without clearing the localStorage keys.

</Note>

## Complete example

Here's the complete onboarding flow from the [Pointer dashboard](https://app.pointer.so):

```typescript
const onboardingConfig = {
  id: "getting-started",
  welcomeHeading: "Hi there 👋",
  welcomeSubheading: "Welcome to Pointer.",
  welcomeDescription:
    "Let's get you familiar with the core features of our platform.",
  welcomeImage: "https://i.ibb.co/j9GdXQ3z/onboarding-guide-image.png",
  guides: [
    {
      id: "integrate-pointer",
      title: "Install Pointer to your app",
      description: "Integrating Pointer into your app in just a few steps.",
      buttonText: "Install Pointer",
      page: "/developers",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "package-manager-button",
          instructions:
            "Copy the install command to your clipboard and install Pointer in your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "script-copy-button",
          instructions: "Now, add the PointerProvider to your app's root file.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "api-copy-button",
          instructions: "Copy your API key and store it in a secure location.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "knowledge-base",
      title: "Add sources",
      description:
        "Add sources to your knowledge base to help Pointer understand your app.",
      buttonText: "Add sources",
      page: "/knowledge",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "add-file-button",
          instructions: "Add a file to your knowledge base.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
        {
          position: "add-link-button",
          instructions:
            "Add a URL (docs, website, etc.) to your knowledge base.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "invite-team",
      title: "Invite team members",
      description: "Invite your team members to your project.",
      buttonText: "Invite team",
      page: "/settings?tab=teams",
      steps: [
        {
          position: "invite-members-button",
          instructions: "Invite your team members to your project.",
          action: { type: "click" as const },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      id: "view-docs",
      title: "View docs",
      description: "View the docs to learn more about Pointer.",
      buttonText: "View docs",
      buttonLink: "https://docs.pointer.so",
    },
    {
      id: "join-community",
      title: "Join community",
      description:
        "Join our Discord community to get help and support from the Pointer team.",
      buttonText: "Join community",
      buttonLink: "https://dub.sh/pointer-community",
    },
  ],
};
```
